should I at this point be spending all
this time now trying to get Google going
yes because there's a ton of money to be
made sure you want the traffic you want
The Branding you want the revenue right
go for it
okay so going to the actual content
itself I'm picking up on where this
might go but any length of article
preferable or you're just saying just
don't think about these things don't
think about them do whatever is best for
the user it's like everyone's like oh I
need a 5 000 word article well if your
articles on how to tie a tie do you
think people want to read 5000 words on
how to tie a tie exactly but if your
article is on how to build a car motor
engine from scratch
I don't think people want a thousand
words they want probably more than 5 000
words and they probably want images and
gifs and videos integrated so that way
they know how to do it step by step okay
interesting very helpful so the content
itself then
um I am only looking to to write this
from humans or can I look at using
things like chat gbt to get me 90 of the
way there you can use the AI but or you
can use AI but you may have to modify
way more than 10 percent
okay
again your content needs to have the
double e a t you're not going to get
that from chat GPT and you're not going
to get it from a 10 modification
can you see a time where that will
change can you see this getting better
and better and better and with better
prompts come better articles
I think so but I think humans will need
to modifier for a long time okay
interesting talk me through that a
little bit more would you so people
overestimate what AI can do for them at
least in the short run they believe it's
an end-all be all and they can do
everything I also think people
underestimate what it can do for you in
the long run and I can probably do way
more than people are expecting and yet
time will tell what it can do
um
but imagine
right now you know if you're using AI
and you have it create a piece of
content it's scouring the web and using
that as a baseline to come up with
something new
how's that going to help you create
anything unique right their algorithm or
the way they create and process your
prompts and create your content has to
change
if
it was able to create you something
that's unique and special that other
people aren't talking about how do they
do that I don't know that's probably a
better question for Sam Altman or Elon
Musk okay uh but if they're able to do
that sure then you're talking about it's
really game changing I just don't know
how they do that
so would there be any Merit
in migon's chat GPT
prompting them to give me you know
something to start with but specifically
prompting them to SEO optimize this
article they're writing would you feel
they'd spit out something that's
actually going to help the SEO or again
we've tried it not much they're just
using what they're finding on the web
but again
if you want to rank for any term
that's competitive let's say auto
insurance there's already a billion
results in the United States only a few
hundred thousand people are clicking
they're clicking on page one that means
out of a billion plus articles or web
pages
10 are getting majority of the traffic
you really need to do something that
stands out to do well in SEO okay and I
don't see Chad GPT doing that
or not at least anytime soon correct and
if they can do it soon that means
everyone's using it so how do you stand
out when everyone's doing the same thing
you still got to go above and beyond
okay so before we before we move on from
AI I'm gonna just Sidetrack us a little
bit where do you see AI being most
prevalent in your business at the moment
like what's what are you using that is
most helpful analytics okay analyzing ad
spend figuring out where there's wastage
in real time and then adjusting from
there because most people don't look at
their analytics on a daily basis and if
they do they're not actually looking for
actionable insights and they're not
making changes based on that that's
where there's a ton of savings and
opportunity it's not sexy
just a lot of opportunity there look how
much money people spend on Google and
Facebook imagine if you can be 10 20 30
more efficient and so how are you doing
that if I wanted to leverage AI to
analyze yeah so you take all your data
pop it into place
call it Google data Studio Tableau or
wherever you want to use and you need to
use AI to and tell them to start
analyzing the data on a regular basis I
don't know exactly how you get there at
the end of the day we more so have
Engineers who help us Implement all this
stuff uh I'm not the one coding and
figuring out but it works okay perfect
any any other AI tools that are helping
you at the moment that don't need an
engineer to put it together is they just
mid Journey okay mid journey is really
good for images yep I don't know about
copyright laws and stuff like that but
it's really good for images okay awesome
so back to the content itself a few more
questions on that am I ideally breaking
up my content into sections am I putting
little mini headers you are think of it
like a book you want to break it down
not because of SEO but because it makes
it easier for someone to read the
article or skim it include images videos
whatever makes it the most usable well
that was my next question so videos in
in the article is fine we're not doing
it this is what I'm I'm picking up from
you we're not doing it because we need
it for SEO we're just we're focusing on
the user experience okay that's the most
important part okay so if a video is
needed or would help we'll put it in
correct no need exactly okay perfect
next thing so again this is for me you
guys are listening in on like these are
the things I want to know if I'm going
to get started the thing that's held me
back is thinking this is going to be so
competitive that I want the path of
least resistance but I think it's going
to take me a long long time to get any
kind of traction so would I be would it
be advantageous for me to find a sub
Niche for me to okay say all right I
talk about YouTube ads webinars High
ticket coaching there's loads of people
that do this stuff should I focus on
just YouTube ads to start or should I
focus on just webinars and and get loads
of keywords for that and kind of carve
my mini Niche first or articles on
everything
so I would I would actually recommend go
after your mini Niche and then expand
into the broader Niche and then expand
into the broader Market okay but the
reason you want to start with the mini
niches is go after one area conquer get
the traffic and slowly start expanding
you don't want to stay in the mini Niche
forever there's only so much traffic in
a mini Niche got it so what would you of
the things I've described so far what
would you um point out as being a mini
Niche because YouTube ads I guess is
smaller but it's still going to be a
huge topic right are you saying that
could be your mini Niche just YouTube
ads uh or the next one could be webinars
your Niche could be you know your your
broader more Niche could just be digital
marketing as general I see okay
and that's not really a niche but you
get what I mean it's a bigger market so
you would say YouTube ads as a topic if
I'm producing loads of Articles around
that that would be a mini Niche that
would be something smaller correct
YouTube ads for to specify we're talking
about YouTube ads here for coaching
related stuff not just YouTube ads got
it okay that's actually that's actually
helpful for me to know so I wouldn't be
trying to put
um articles together talking about
YouTube ads for anyone and everyone and
explaining how YouTube ads work and the
board you may do some generic articles
like that but the majority would be
targeted for your audience okay very
good so perhaps you wouldn't mind
spitballing with me what would be
perhaps an example of a primary keyword
I might look for to to get started with
this like what what kind of things come
to mind for you if I'm going to teach
YouTube ads to coaches I'm going to
produce a bunch of Articles what kind of
stuff comes to mind
how to run ads for coaching okay
something like that yeah got it and then
just put that back into how to sell
coaching online yeah you can talk about
using webinars to sell coaching online
stuff like that so that fit that feels
and sounds so competitive to me so it's
not that competitive competitive is like
credit cards
okay then maybe I just have a limiting
belief over this that this is going to
be harder than perhaps it actually is
it's not that hard it just takes time
the reason most people don't do it is
because of the time Factor okay takes
the year plus to really get good results
got it I'm so tempted to ask you about
the expectations now but I'm going to
save it till later we'll finish up with
that what I would like to ask you now is
we've got our primary sites
adclients.com many people watching will
know that we've had that site on
WordPress for quite some time we've
actually just moved it off
um we feel we have three options for our
site that we will be producing content
and doing a lot of this stuff first
option is that we use adclients.com that
has very little domain Authority
um has not been taken care of but has
been around for a long time and it's
what our clients know second option is
we start from complete scratch nope
what's the next one okay perfect third
option is that I go and buy a site that
has a bit more domain Authority with a
name that I like and if I'll add one
more thing in but you're already done
for ad clients I would just use that and
just build up the authority over time
would you really yeah
now Okay so we've moved it off of
Wordpress onto a software that we've
built it's called funneler it's a it's a
sales funnel Builder but it handles
WordPress it handles our websites too so
preferably we don't want to go back to
Wordpress because we want to have our
site all in one
um what Merit is there now in being on
WordPress for SEO or would you say we
would be fine actually on our own
platform almost all platforms are pretty
SEO compatible they're not all but
majority are so I wouldn't do I wouldn't
worry too much about the platform I
would more so worry about the experience
and the content
okay doesn't matter if you're on
WordPress or your own platform if your
content sucks it sucks if it's great
it's great
so but is there any Merit in word like
like if I if I put the same article on
on a site that's not on WordPress and
one that is my answer that's not about
WordPress or not it's about did you do
all the other stuff like optimize your
site for SEO and fix the errors and
improve the load time and assuming you
did all the other stuff it doesn't
matter if you're on WordPress or not if
you're on WordPress you can still have
the same issues if you're not on
WordPress you can still have the same
issues yep
so what if I fixed everything to
Perfection you're fine
yeah WordPress wouldn't give me an
advantage because your chain you give me
a paradigm shift right now because I've
had it locked and ingrained in my brain
that a blog or a site producing content
on WordPress will just rank higher
no that's a misconception okay can you
talk me through that a little bit more
because I need to truly believe that
because what I've heard is there's so
much Authority on WordPress that that is
Authority on the Internet is how many
people know your brand talk about it
link to it Etc WordPress is just a
platform yep just like if someone use
your platform it doesn't mean they're
going to rank higher it's just a
platform okay you gotta optimize it
create amazing experience create amazing
content either gonna rank or you're not
gonna rank has nothing to do with the
platform assuming you fix all the other
basic stuff so with that in mind one
more thing to to add in
if I wanted to create a blog that is
where is where I'm producing all this
content but I would like it to be a
standalone sellable asset later on down
the line which I actually do I I see I
see benefit in that I see the content I
produce at the moment
benefiting our coaching company but I
also see a time where perhaps five six
seven years down the line the blog as a
standalone item is very valuable and if
it's faceless and nameless as we spoke
about yesterday on stage
um you know I might get a better price
for it right so with that in mind would
I still start blogging from ad clients
or would I buy a number really
okay
over something like you know I see
social media examiner and sites like
that where it's that's fine too but
people already know you've had client so
I might as well use what they already
know you for why build a brand from
scratch when you already have one yeah
okay that's pretty good point
so then I want to make sure I'm
understanding this correctly the actual
domain name itself then having certain
keywords or a relevant Topic in it I'm
hearing is not really that important no
it used to be more important but not as
much okay Wikipedia ranks for a lot of
stuff the domain Wikipedia doesn't have
tons of keywords in it that's true the
URL May and that's fine you naturally
may put keywords in the URL but the
domain doesn't have to have keywords
so you mentioned something yesterday on
stage about
um Wikipedia which I'd love for you to
repeat for my viewers here you talked
about updating content the reason
Wikipedia ranks for almost everything is
they update content it's like if I give
you Apple that's three years old would
you want to eat it no thank you exactly
so with your content people don't want
to read three four five year old content
they want to refresh content that's up
to date doesn't mean the three-year-old
content is bad just update it every few
times a year so that way it's fresh and
up-to-date and relevant for people great
great example is if you read an article
around covid-19 we all know it exists
now yeah right it's not a myth
um
if the article was two years old you
think it would be as relevant as
something that was written today about
covet 19. no exactly no one wants to
read old articles yeah it makes a lot of
sense so many people in the room I saw
the Jaws are dropping and to you it's
probably just that sounds obvious and
simple but yeah to everyone in the room
it made a lot of sense so yeah
appreciate that tip okay so to round
this off then what are my expectations
here let's say I leave this interview
yeah I really do get with my team I do
what you've said which I believe you
said post at least three times a week
I'm gonna perhaps use chat gbt to help
us with a starting piece of content but
we're gonna put human at time into it
yeah and we stay consistent what am I to
expect you should see traffic increases
within the first few months you'll
really start seeing your traffic grow
after a year so that's the part I don't
like hearing but I know that we need to
we just it's part of the process right
it feels that easy everyone would do it
well that's right that's why you guys
spend probably millions of dollars a
year on ads it's easier yeah doesn't
mean they're bad it just means why not
do both
so then on that on that train of thought
do you build this business overnight how
long have you been doing it long time 10
years plus exactly yeah so that so then
on that train of thought do you think
I'm making a sensible decision here
which is that we have a quite a large
company paid ads are great for us we can
continue doing that we can pivot to new
platforms as they're emerging should I
at this point be spending all this time
now trying to get Google going yes okay
why
because there's a ton of money to be
made from it okay you're a business
owner you want you want the traffic you
want The Branding you want the revenue
right yep
go for it so so majority of the people
click on the organic results not the
paid results well that's true
on Google than YouTube so after a year
or two I've stayed really consistent
um in my industry the type of topics
that we've spoken about what levels of
traffic are realistic if I if if my
articles are really going I would have
to look up your space but if you're
generating a half a million dollars in
Revenue a month from Paid ads there's no
reason why you can't double up the
business okay well that part's exciting
12 months is not exciting but doubling
the business is okay awesome any final
Fast Track tips you're probably going to
say no produce good content there's
nothing else to this it's really just
good content links social shares
optimize your site but the the big thing
is you can't create me too content
everyone assumes you do what the
competition does in your rank well the
competition already ranks and it's good
enough you got to do something better
than them to beat them okay
so then is there a Tipping Point where
my my my content is building on itself
compounding to a point where much like
the example you know of a a penny
doubling every day for 30 days you know
you get halfway through your 15 days in
you've still got it you that's the point
where you might go this is doing nothing
after a year you really start seeing it
grow
but an exponential curve as in Google
wants to see a certain length of time a
certain amount of content and then they
boost you no it's not always like that
it's it really is random but it's
because everyone's content quality is
different every industry is uh has
different competition there's a lot of
factors you may build links faster than
someone else like again there's just so
many factors but typically yes you do
see exponential results it really does
compound from usually for what we're
seeing from years one to three okay use
one to three fine
um last question I believe I think last
question I might think of another last
question
at what point would I evaluate what I'm
doing with our SEO efforts and determine
we're going in the wrong direction and
we need to fix something here because if
it's going to take 12 months you should
be able to tell within a few months are
you getting the right type of traffic
the right type of impressions for the
right keywords and if you're not then
you may have you may be doing something
wrong in your shred you like picking the
wrong keywords or writing crap content
and so just if you wouldn't mind giving
me I know it's going to be different for
every industry but give me perhaps a
helpful Benchmark of three times a week
in two months time what am I looking for
to see at least we're going in the right
direction we're picking the right more
Impressions you can log into Google
search console and you should see the
Impressions go up impressions are how
many people seeing your listings on
Google doesn't mean they're clicking
you're just seeing your listing okay got
it and then after a year we should be
seeing some good traffic yes wonderful
Neil thank you so much for your time I
really do appreciate it dude